NASA:
Dr. Karen M. St. Germain:
Division Director of the Earth Science Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) Headquarters
Dr. St. Germain is the Division Director of NASA’s Earth Science Division, providing executive
leadership and strategic direction for the agency’s Earth Science portfolio, including technology
development, research, applied science, and mission operations.
Before joining NASA, she served in senior leadership roles at NOAA, overseeing major satellite
programs including JPSS, GOES-R, COSMIC-2, and Space Weather Follow-On, as well as
future spaceborne capabilities. She also served in the Department of Defense, where she led
strategic space planning and oversight of missile warning and space-based environmental
monitoring programs.
Dr. St. Germain began her career as a researcher at the University of Massachusetts, University
of Nebraska, and Naval Research Laboratory, conducting research in polar regions, hurricanes,
tropical storms, and satellite remote sensing. She holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from
Union College, a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Massachusetts, and an
M.S. in National Security Strategy from the National War College.
Dr. Tom Neumann
Deputy Director, Earth Sciences Division, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
Tom Neumann became the Deputy Director of the Earth Sciences Division at NASA Goddard in
September 2022 where he helps oversee and guide the incredibly diverse portfolio of research,
flight, and modeling projects. Tom's scientific work at Goddard has focused on ICESat-2, the
next-generation laser altimeter which launched in 2018. Tom now serves as the ICESat-2
Project Scientist, after serving as the Deputy Project Scientist during the development and
implementation stages of ICESat-2 from 2008 to 2018. He also served as the Cryospheric
Sciences Lab Chief from Jan 2020 through October 2021. His research included both
theoretical and experimental studies of the chemical, physical, and thermodynamic properties of
polar snow and ice. He has been involved extensively in field work on the Greenland and
Antarctic ice sheets, leading four expeditions and participating in five others between the two
poles. Past work has involved studies of snow chemistry on the East Antarctic plateau and
calibrating ICESat altimetry data using ground-based GPS surveys in Antarctica.
Tom joined NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in October 2008. Prior to that, he was an
assistant professor in the Geology Department at the University of Vermont. He remains an
Affiliate Assistant Professor in Earth and Space Sciences at the University of Washington. He
earned a B.A. in geophysical science from the University of Chicago, and a Ph.D. in geophysics
from the University of Washington.

Emily Sylak-Glassman, PhD
Deputy Associate Director for Earth Action, Earth Science Division
Dr. Emily Sylak-Glassman is Deputy Associate Director for Earth Action in NASA’s Earth
Science Division, where she manages activities using NASA Earth science to develop practical
solutions for people and the planet. She leads NASA Earth Action’s work on artificial
intelligence, including strategy for using large Earth foundation models in decision-making, and
works to expand partnerships with private-sector organizations and interdisciplinary science
teams.
Previously, she served as a senior policy analyst in NASA’s Office of Technology, Policy, and
Strategy, where her data-driven work earned her an Exceptional Achievement medal. Before
joining NASA in 2019, she worked at the Science and Technology Policy Institute, advising the
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and civil, defense, and intelligence
agencies.
Dr. Sylak-Glassman holds B.S. degrees in Chemistry and Biological Chemistry from the
University of Chicago and a Ph.D. in Chemistry from UC Berkeley. Her research focused on
photosynthesis and how plants adapt to changing light conditions.
Cordelia Hiers Brady
NASA Earth Action Agriculture Program Coordinator
As Agriculture Program Coordinator at NASA, Cordelia supports Earth Action's Ag Program in
managing and developing innovative and sustainable projects that address food and agriculture
challenges, with a decade of experience working with funders, researchers, and farmers
through public-private partnerships. She leverages communication, project leadership, and
relationship-building skills to generate engaging content, build unique partnerships, and oversee
daily management of the agriculture team's programs and events. She holds a master's degree
in agricultural business and economics from Murray State University.
Alex Ruane, PhD
Co-Director, NASA GISS Impacts Group · AgMIP Science Coordinator
Dr. Alex Ruane is a Research Physical Scientist at NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies
and Co-Director of the GISS Climate Impacts Group. He also serves as Research Coordinator
and Climate Team Leader for the Agricultural Model Intercomparison and Improvement Project
(AgMIP), connecting climate, crop, and economic modeling to understand climate impacts on
agriculture, food security, and global economies.
Dr. Ruane contributed to the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report as a Coordinating Lead Author and
Core Writing Team member. His research examines climate impacts across agriculture, water,
infrastructure, energy, urban areas, and human health, with a focus on adaptation strategies and

decision-support tools. He also leads work connecting satellite data, climate projections, crop
models, and AI to support agricultural and urban decision-making.
He holds a B.S. in Atmospheric Science from Cornell University and a Ph.D. from Scripps
Institution of Oceanography at UC San Diego.
Forrest S. Melton
Senior Research Scientist, NASA Ames Research Center
Forrest Melton is a Senior Research Scientist with the Earth Sciences Division at NASA Ames
Research Center. Forrest currently serves as an Associate Program Manager for Water
Resources and Agriculture with the NASA Applied Sciences Program, as the NASA Project
Scientist for OpenET. Since 2003, he has worked in the Atmospheric and Biospheric Sciences
Branches at NASA Ames Research Center on the development of modeling and satellite-driven
decision support frameworks including OpenET, the Satellite Irrigation Management Support
(SIMS) system, the NASA Earth Exchange (NEX), and the Terrestrial Observation and
Prediction System (TOPS). His research focuses on applications of satellite data to improve
management of natural resources, remote sensing of evapotranspiration and agricultural water
requirements, and ecosystem and carbon cycle modeling. Forrest holds B.S. and M.S. degrees
in Earth Systems Science from Stanford University, and has authored over fifty papers and book
chapters on applications of remote sensing. He is the recipient of honor awards from NASA for
his contributions to TOPS and NEX, and has also been recognized for his work on applications
of satellite data for water management with awards from the California Department of Water
Resources and the Federal Labs Consortium. In 2022, Forrest was awarded the NASA
Exceptional Public Service Medal for his efforts to advance the use of remotely sensed ET data
in water resources management..
Aries Keck:
Communications Strategist, NASA
Aries Keck has over 15 years in NASA communications with a focus on strategic planning,
identifying key audiences, and encouraging users of Earth science data. As the first-ever lead
for social media at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, she established NASA's Sun, Earth,
and Moon accounts. Before NASA, Keck was a regular contributor to National Public Radio and
co-authored a book on Albert Einstein. She's a member of the National Association of Science
Writers and the past president of the DC Science Writers.
Lena Pransky:
User Engagement & Outreach Strategist, NASA
Lena Pransky is a science communicator and user engagement strategist at NASA, where she
works with the SERVIR program to connect satellite Earth data with locally led solutions to
environmental and development challenges around the world. Drawing on her background in
agricultural extension, international agricultural development, and science communication, Lena

collaborates with scientists and decision-makers to make research more accessible, relevant,
and actionable.
She holds an M.S. in International Agricultural Development from the University of California,
Davis. Her work spans food security, agroecology, organic farming, food justice, and community
engagement, with experience supporting farmers and food-access organizations in both the
U.S. and Latin America. She also holds a B.A. in Latin American Studies from Macalester
College, with minors in Economics, Political Science, and Portuguese.
Kait Lemon
Agriculture Trainer, NASA Applied Remote Sensing Training Program (ARSET)
Kait Lemon is a natural resources professional, geospatial analyst, and seventh-generation
farmer, with more than a decade of experience working in applied sciences, spanning forestry
ecology, agriculture, and conservation program management. She currently serves as the
Agriculture Trainer for the NASA Applied Remote Sensing Training Program (ARSET) and as a
Partnership Specialist with NASA EarthRISE Developers Academy. In this nexus
capacity-building position, she supports the development and expansion of remote sensing
applications and training for agricultural applications. Her work focuses on translating NASA
Earth observations into actionable tools and decision-support resources for state and local
partners across the United States.
NASA Acres:
Alyssa K. Whitcraft, PhD
Founding Executive Director, NASA Acres · Research Professor, University of Maryland
Alyssa is a Research Professor in the Department of Geographical Sciences at the University of
Maryland, College Park. She is the founding Executive Director of NASA Acres, NASA’s
agriculture consortium that focuses on strengthening U.S. agriculture. Her passion for
agriculture and her vision for NASA Acres as a program that centers agriculture producers grew
out of her experience as a winery kid in California.
Prior to NASA Acres, she founded and continues to direct the Harvest Sustainable and
Regenerative Agriculture Initiative, a 501(c)3 consortium of top scientists and innovators in
remote sensing, modeling, agronomy, and soil science that aims to build a globally-consistent
and site-relevant understanding of sustainable and regenerative agriculture practices and their
outcomes. Harvest SARA grew out of NASA Harvest, NASA’s original food security and
agriculture consortium that works internationally, for which she was the co-founding Deputy
Director for its initial term (2017-2023). She has also served as Programme Scientist for the G20
global agriculture monitoring initiative (GEOGLAM) and as the agriculture lead for the
consortium of the world’s space agencies (the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites) for
over a decade.

Mike Humber, PhD
Deputy Director, NASA Acres · Associate Research Professor, University of Maryland
Michael Humber is an Associate Research Professor in the Department of Geographical
Sciences. He received his B.S. in Geography (2011), M.P.S. in Geographic Information Science
(2013), and Ph.D. in Geography (2019) from the University of Maryland. His background is in
remote sensing, spatial statistics, and geographic data management. Dr. Humber is the Deputy
Director for the NASA Acres consortium, Data Lead for the NASA Harvest consortium, Lead
Scientist for the Climate-Smart Agriculture component of the UMD Climate Resilience Network,
and member of the UMD-NASA Fire Science Team.
Michael’s current work in agriculture focuses on developing and distributing satellite-based data
products that improve the quality and availability of data to agricultural decision-makers and
farmers while building inclusive frameworks that involve local stakeholders in the “virtuous cycle”
of research design. He leads a team of applications developers that create web/mobile apps
and data processing pipelines using high-performance computing (HPC) systems and
cloud-native architecture. Such applications provide decision support for humanitarian,
research, and operational partners globally (under NASA Harvest) and domestically (under
NASA Acres) and in the state of Maryland (under the Climate Resilience Network).
Allison Bredder, PhD
Strategic Engagement Officer, NASA Acres
As Strategic Engagement Officer at NASA Acres, Allison helps build connections between Earth
observation science and the agriculture community to co-create tools that use satellite data to
support everyday decisions on the farm and strengthen resilience to climate challenges. She is
also a Postdoctoral Associate in the Department of Geographical Sciences at the University of
Maryland, where her research focuses on the health impacts of wildfire smoke using remote
sensing, machine learning, and epidemiological methods. Her broader expertise spans optical
remote sensing, data visualization, and science communication.

Jacob Orser
Program Support Specialist, NASA Acres
Jacob Orser is a Program Support Specialist at NASA Acres, a consortium focused on U.S.
domestic agriculture. He received his education from Macalester College, where he studied
geography and economics with an emphasis on food, agriculture, and society. His work includes
analysis of remote sensing to quantity crop quality as well as estimations of supply elasticities
and farmers' indifference curves. What drives Jacob in this field is his passion for knowledge
transfer and education. He is deeply committed to connecting with experts across the
agricultural sector and promoting the secure transfer of data. Jacob aims to increase general
knowledge about remote sensing and its applications in US agriculture, fostering a long-term
view in the field. His work at NASA Acres focuses on bridging the gap between cutting-edge

research and practical applications, ultimately benefiting farmers, researchers, and
policymakers.
Adam Zwerner
Communications and Outreach Specialist
Adam Zwerner leads communications and outreach for NASA Acres, NASA’s Agriculture
Consortium based at the University of Maryland, where he advances the use of NASA Earth
observation data in U.S. agriculture through strategic engagement with internal and external
stakeholders.
He brings extensive experience supporting federal agencies, international NGOs, and the
private sector across the U.S. and globally.
Ignacio Ciampitti
Professor of Agronomy, Purdue University · Co-Director, IDAAS (Oklahoma portion only)
Ignacio Ciampitti, a quantitative agronomist with a focus on the integration of digital agriculture
in the context of complex farming systems, is the co-director of the Institute for Digital and
Advanced Agricultural Systems (IDAAS) and a full professor in the agronomy department. Prior
to this role, he was one of the founding directors of the Institute for Digital Agriculture and
Advanced Analytics at Kansas State University. With a strong academic foundation, including a
bachelor’s and master’s degree from the University of Buenos Aires and Ph.D. in agronomy
from Purdue, Ciampitti’s research explores the integration of crop eco-physiology and plant
nutrition with data science, remote sensing and crop modeling tools. Ciampitti has trained many
graduate students, research scholars and post-doctoral researchers, and led critical key
projects with industry and farmers around the globe. Ciampitti brings a wealth of experience
from various past and current leadership roles that position him to successfully lead Purdue’s
IDAAS in advancing technology-driven and data-informed agricultural solutions while working
closely with founding director Dennis Buckmaster. In addition to his full-time position, Ciampitti is
an associate editor-in-chief for European Journal of Agronomy, a technical editor for Crop
Science Journal and serves on the editorial board for Field Crops Research, Remote Sensing,
Forecasting journals. Outside of research, Ciampitti enjoys spending time with his family and
watching soccer, a passion influenced by his South American heritage.
Faith Riensche
NASA Acres FIAT Liaison · Purdue University Research Assistant
A sixth-generation farmer from Iowa, Faith is the liaison for the NASA Acres Farm Innovation
Ambassador Team (FIAT) and a research assistant in the Ciampitti Lab at Purdue University.
She earned both her B.S. in 2025 and M.S. in 2026 with a focus on food and agriculture from
Stanford University.